generalize instructions for new release series (SOFTWARE-3808) (#695)
opensciencegrid/technology: docs/release/new-release-series.md

How to Prepare a New Release Series
===================================

> !!!info

Reviewer: Can we just drop this block? I don't think where this doc comes from is really all that important... and let's not link to my notes in public docs :-)

Author: Sure.  I mean not that i really care either way, but yeah i've dropped it.

===================================

> !!! warning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!!!info
```

We don't have to warn people about the source of the notes

Author: Right, I guess we don't really need to warn that the instructions were based on Mat's notes ;)

Do afterward, anytime before the month of the release
-----------------------------------------------------

-   Create a blank `osg-3.X` SVN branch and add `buildsys-macros` package

    1.  svn copy `buildsys-macros` from trunk and hand-edit it to hardcode the new `osg_version` and `dver` values

>         Do the following steps for all EL versions relevant to the new series; eg, for EL 7:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Do the following steps for all EL versions relevant to the new series; e.g., for EL 7:
```

Author: Personally i think it's legit to say "eg" without the dots, in the same way that it's normal to say "etc", rather than et. c.

        1.  Edit the spec file and set `dver` to `7`, and `osg_version` to `3.X`
        2.  Run the following commands (adjust the NVR as necessary):

                :::console
                $ osg-build rpmbuild --el7
                $ osg-koji import _build_results/buildsys-macros-*.el7.src.rpm
                $ osg-koji import _build_results/buildsys-macros-*.el7.noarch.rpm
                $ pkg=$(basename _build_results/buildsys-macros-*.el7.src.rpm)
                $ pkg=${pkg%.src.rpm}
                $ osg-koji tag-pkg osg-3.X-el7-development "$pkg"

    2.  Do a 'real' build of `buildsys-macros`

        1.  Bump the revision in the `buildsys-macros` spec file and edit the `%changelog`.
            **Again, you will need a version of osg-build with 3.X support.**

>         Do the following steps for all EL versions relevant to the new series; eg, for EL 7:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Do the following steps for all EL versions relevant to the new series; e.g., for EL 7:
```

        3.  Set `dver` to 7. Commit

                :::console
                $ osg-build koji --repo=3.X --el7

- Update `tarball-client` scripts
    - `bundles.ini`
    - `patches/`

>     - `upload-tarballs-to-oasis` (for 3.X, `foreach_dver_arch` will need to be updated for the new set of 3.X `dver_arches`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `upload-tarballs-to-oasis` (`foreach_dver_arch` may need to be updated for the new set of 3.X `dver_arches`)
```

Author: The upload-tarballs-to-oasis script defines one set of `dver_arches` per 3.x release series, so it always needs to be updated.

Reviewer: OK

- Update documentation [here](/software/development-process)
- Update osg-test / vmu-test-runs
    -   They're only going to test from minefield (and eventurally testing) until the release

> - Drop the `osg-3.X-elY-bootstrap` koji tags (after the successful mass rebuild only)

Reviewer 2: Could you add a bullet here mentioning that we should update https://github.com/opensciencegrid/docker-software-base and any container images that are based on it?

Author: updated
